Article 286 of rec.games.programmer:
Path: aplcomm!aplcen!umd5!haven!rutgers!mit-eddie!ll-xn!vlsi!davea
From: davea@vlsi.ll.mit.edu (Dave Allen)
Newsgroups: rec.games.programmer,rec.games.frp
Subject: Universe Simulator
Keywords: universe simulator
Message-ID: <146@vlsi.ll.mit.edu>
Date: 29 Aug 88 21:42:07 GMT
Distribution: rec
Organization: MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington MA
Lines: 100
Xref: aplcomm rec.games.programmer:286 rec.games.frp:4012


There has been some traffic on the net lately about a "Universe Simulator".
This post is a summary and announcement of an informal mailing list.

Jim Meritt has volunteered to host a mailing list and archive.  If
you are interested in the topic, please email him and he will add
your name to the list.  If you have a contribution, email it to him
(preferred), or post it to rec.games.frp or .programmer.  If you
email it, he will redistribute it to the list.

The following people are on the list already:
davea@vlsi.ll.mit.edu (Dave Allen, hey that's me)
jwm@stdc.jhuapl.edu (Jim Meritt)
dav@eleazar.dartmouth.edu (William David Haas)
pearl@aramis.rutgers.edu (Stephen Pearl)
spar!navtech!mark@decwrl.dec.com (Mark Stevans)
dredick@vax.bbn.com (Don Redick)
netxcom!ewiles@uunet.uu.net (Edwin Wiles)
jl3j@andrew.cmu.edu (John Robert Leavitt)
duncanj@umd5.umd.edu (James Duncan)
If you're on this list but have no interest, we'd appreciate it
if you could email Jim to tell him.

I will post summaries of the discussion to both rec.games.frp and
rec.games.programmer under the topic Universe Simulator.  Here is
a summary of what has happened so far.

ACTUAL hoax - "David M. Brown", r.g.p 126 (25 Jul), 130 (28 Jul)
Call for discussion - Mark Stevans, r.g.p 146 (31 Jul)
Statement of intent - Dave Allen, r.g.p (early Aug), posted
  by Mark Stevans.  We are trying to write a program that
  simulates the evolution of a large number of star systems,
  showing the development of intelligent life, invention of culture,
  and inter-relationships of interstellar civilizations.  Key points
  are the variety of lifeforms, differing rates and types of technological
  development, and a variety of interaction modes for alien contacts.
  The resulting program would be something you would sit back and
  watch, like the Scientific American game Life.  Each simulation
  timestep, the universe would get a little older.
Description of Universe Simulator - Dave Allen, r.g.p 165 (8 Aug)
  Basically, it starts out with an empty universe full of dust.
  Stars are born, live their life on the main sequence, and supernova.
  Later stars have higher metallicity.  Each star is created with
  planets, each having a temperature, atmosphere and (possibly) life.
  Simulation uses die-rolling rather than astrophysical formulae,
  is written in ~300 lines of Amiga Basic code, and runs in 6 minutes.
Breakdown of simulation levels in the Universe Simulator, Dave Allen, to
  Jim Meritt.  There are really three separate simulations involved
  here:  development of planetary systems and stars; growth of a single
  intelligent race; interaction of starfaring races with other races.
Description of astrophysical-formula simulations, Jim Meritt, to Dave
  Allen, 19 Aug 88.  Made up a random generator that pumped out stars
  with a distribution similiar to a galactic arm.  Lifted a condensate
  version of planetary creation to derive size and probable core/crust
  composition.  Used the star mass and the distance/composition to get
  planetary masses.  Used star temp and the distance/mass of the planet
  to get probable atmosphere composition & pressure (ev calculations,
  liquid water temp range, dust, that type of stuff).  Made random
  generators for stuff like moons & rings.  For terrestrial-type surface
  conditions, there is a reasonable amount of climatology that is not too
  numeric intensive.
Offer of working PC Basic programs, from Dave Allen, to Jim Meritt,
  18 Aug 88.  A working condensation simulator, based on a paper by
  Stephen Dole, that generates planetary systems given star mass
  and initial dust density.  I've made two modified versions of these,
  one to allow captured moons, and one to generate a moon system
  given planet mass.  An atmosphere generator based on papers by M.H.
  Hart which simulates the development of Earth's atmosphere with
  parameters to generate the atmosphere of any terrestrial planet"
Description of climatology system, from Jim Meritt, to Dave Allen,
  19 Aug 88.  You can get climatology from (distance from sun, length of
  year and day, and axial tilt), but you have to throw in things like
  distance from ocean (for habitable) in direction of prevailing winds
  (planet-wide hadley cells for prevailing zones).  For microclimates
  ("local weather") you sorta gotta cheat (statistical separation from
  predicted climate)  I think I have an article that has a basic
  program that dies the planetwide climate from orbital characteristics
  someplace.  Or maybe the other way (climate to orbit).
Wish list for climatology program, from Dave Allen to Jim Meritt,
  26 Aug 88.  Suggests  raster map of a planet, 70 x 210 pixels.  Each
  pixel is either land, mountain or ocean.  Derive temperature ranges
  by season and time of day from known parameters.  Determine global
  atmospheric circulation.  Determine rainfall for each pixel,
  accounting for rain shadows.  Determine ocean currents, microclimates.
Description of using tectonics to generate world maps, Mark Isaak, r.g.f
  2284, 24 Aug 88.  Divide globe into 20 plates, some continent, most
  ocean.  Give each plate a random direction and velocity; let them move.
  Change the directions every once in a while.  Erode the mountains.
More description of tectonics, Mark Isaak, to Dave Allen, 26 Aug 88.
  (Describes a complete method for generating world maps by hand)
List of references to simulations of politics, human behavior and
  international relations, from Jim Meritt, to Dave Allen and Stephen
  Pearl, 26 Aug 88.  (Not included)
Description of universe simulator, from Stan Shebs, article 276 of r.g.p
  (26 Aug 88).  He has a document describing the basics of a simulator
  for a universe.  Getting the basic concepts right is pretty hard -
  for instance how to do 3D models of planets, how to track EM radiation
  at various frequencies, and how to handle energy/info transfer of
  various sorts, without all of this requiring a building full of Class
  VI machines to run reasonably.