Article 308 of rec.games.programmer:
Path: aplcomm!aplcen!umd5!haven!ames!ll-xn!vlsi!davea
From: davea@vlsi.ll.mit.edu (Dave Allen)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp,rec.games.programmer
Subject: Universe Simulation
Message-ID: <157@vlsi.ll.mit.edu>
Date: 7 Sep 88 17:05:49 GMT
Distribution: rec
Organization: MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington MA
Lines: 45
Xref: aplcomm rec.games.frp:4136 rec.games.programmer:308


Summary of discussion on the unofficial "Universe Simulation" mailing list,
Aug 31 - Sept 7:

Sean Malloy (malloy@nprdc.arpa) sent us a set of programs to generate star
  systems from the SFRPG Other Suns.  There are four; three in Pascal and one
  in C.  They generate one "hex" (1000 ly across) and fill it with stars
  and planets according to the charts and tables in the game.
There was some discussion about using fractal geometry to create terrain;
  several people mentioned programs they had written to generate random terrain
  using fractals.  Edwin King (elk@cbnews.att.com) gave us a working program
  in C to generate rectangular pieces of terrain.
Jim Meritt (jwm@stdc.jhuapl.edu) has posted about fifty journal references,
  many from Scientific American, concerning scientific efforts to model
  planet creation, atmospheric development and circulation, climate, development
  of life, sociological and cultural development,
Jim Meritt also dug up a set of programs to generate systems for Traveller,
  originally posted to comp.sources.games.  Here is a quote from the README file:
  "To generate complete listings of star systems (an allegedly complete
  implementation of Single-Star Systems according to the rules in Book 6)
  it is necessary to compile the files in sysgen (by typing make) and then
  running the program st. Be warned this produces voluminous output."  The
  programs look pretty complete and are written in C.
Matt Burdick (burdick@hpindda.hp.com) has written a program in Turbo Pascal
  based on a set of papers by Martin Fogg in Journal of the British Interplanetary
  Society (JBIS).  The program uses astrophysical theories to simulate
  the creation of a star system, with results that look much like our solar
  system.  He posted (rec.games.programmer article 225) a sample output,
  and it has a number of details about each planet like size, gravity,
  est. surface temperature, albedo and so on.
Andrew Folkins (mnetor!alberta!andrew@uunet.uu.net) has implemented Dole's
  accretion simulator (upon which Fogg's simulator was based) in C on the Amiga.
Mary Kuhner (jyamato@cory.berkeley.edu ?) brought up some questions related
  to realistic patterns of weather and population density, and aggregation
  of small political units into larger ones.
Brian Bowers (cs2551af@charon.unm.edu) made some suggestions about weather
  patterns and historical development of nations, and Edwin Wiles
  (netxcom!ewiles@uunet.uu.net) made some more suggestions.  Darren Sinster
  gave us a whole list of relationships between landscape and weather
  patterns.

Please contact Jim Meritt (jwm@stdc.jhuapl.edu) for information requests
or to be added to / deleted from the list.

Dave Allen: internet davea@ll-vlsi.arpa or @vlsi.ll.mit.edu


